So what is an ECG or electrocardiogram
It is recording
The electrical activity within the heart
What triggers contraction
Cardiac muscle
What start with just a little physiology
I'm going to keep this very brief
Very simple
But you can spend time on your own learning physiology
The different Acts
Pacemaker
And working cell
Let's imagine that this is a row of
Cardiac muscle
Each cell is
Polarized
The cell interior
Has a net negative charge relative
The outside
Voltage-gated ion channels in the my site membranes will open up
Allowing positively charged ions
Is sodium calcium
Enter the cell
Because he's ions are positively charged as a build up within the my site they will give the cell interior a net positive
Charge relative to cell exterior
This is known as depolarization because it was Polar Ice arrest and now is no longer polarized
The cells are connected via Gap Junctions which allowed ions or charge to spread from cell to cell
When the new cell reaches threshold
The process repeats is voltage gated ion channels in its cell membrane open allowing the influx of sodium and calcium
The Gap Junctions allow charge to spread efficiently from cell-to-cell causing a wave of depolarization
This wave propagates throughout the heart in an orderly fashion as an electrical impulse
The sum of all electrical force is generated by every cell in the heart is plotted as voltage versus time and this
Is plot is called an ECG
You may be wondering how ions moving across a myocyte membrane can cause the modify balls to shorten or contract
Remember we aren't talking about Action potentials moving through a motor neuron which uses neurotransmitters to cause muscle contraction
We talk about action potentials
Spreading via Gap Junctions throughout the cardiac cells themselves
Including pacemaker cells specialized conducting cells and the cardiac muscle cells
During cardiac Action potentials there's an inward flow of calcium from outside the cell as we just discussed
This calcium open story Imogene receptor
Causing the release of even more calcium from the sarcoplasmic reticulum
Into the myocyte cytoplasm
A phenomenon known as calcium dependent calcium release
The calcium binds to troponin which unlocked tropomyosin which allows a cross-linking of actin
This causes contraction or shortening of the myofibrils
If more calcium into the cytoplasm more myofibrils will be active
Does the amount of calcium corresponds to the force of contraction
The initial influx of calcium during the action potential is not sufficient to call sustained ventricular contraction
So calcium dependent calcium release is necessary to ensure that the heart can contract and eject enough blood to Keep Us Alive
The main point is that action potentials moving through the conduction system
Are the initial trigger for the cardiac muscle cells to contract
Therefore when you're looking at electrical activity on Macy G
You can be certain that it is coupled
Physical contraction of The myocardium under normal circumstances
If the ECG shows a fast rate than you know that there's a high frequency of impulses causing the heart to pump rapidly
If an ECG shows no organized electrical activity such as ventricular fibrillation
Then you know that the patient's heart is not pumping effectively an emergent resuscitation is needed
Normally a wave of action potentials begins in the sinoatrial node or SA node
Located in the superior region of the right atrium
This wave then spread throughout both Atria
Causing atrial contraction that squeezes blood
The Atria and ventricles are electrically isolated from each other by fibrous tissue
So the only path that the impulse can travel is through the atrioventricular node or AV node
For this reason the AV node is considered the GateKeeper
Between atrial impulses
And regular impulse
This gatekeeper function of the AV node is crucial for limiting the rate of ventricular contraction during atrial arrhythmias such
What is atrial fibrillation
Good morning that later
When the impulse reaches the AV node it encounters a conduction delay
Which ensures that the Atria have fully contracted and filled the ventricles with blood
Prior to ventricular contraction
From there the impulse travels rapidly through the bundle of His
Which splits into the left bundle branch and right bundle branch
And then reaches the purkinje fibers
The purkinje fibers stimulate ventricular myocytes causing Chris ventricular contraction
This organized conduction pathway causes The myocardium to contract in a coordinated manner that squeezes blood through the pulmonary
Artery to the lungs or through the aorta to the rest of the body
So let's talk about the basics of an ECG
The very first step it's connector patients the ECG machine via 10 wire electrodes
You place a piece of stickers on the patient
Four on the limbs and 6 on the chest
And then you clap on the wires and connect into the ECG machine
By recording electrical activity between these 10 electrodes the ECG machine produces 12 leads that give you info
Information about electrical forces in various directions
What start with the limb leads
The right leg electrode is not measured but is used as the electrical ground
The other three limb electrodes are used to reduce the six limb leads which give you information about the patient's heart in the frontal
Playing
The limb leads are bipolar leads
So they measure current from the negative electrode towards the positive electrode
Ligue 1
It's from the right on electrodes the left on electron
Lead II is from the right arm to the left leg
Lead 3
Is from the left arm to the left leg
Lead AVR is from the average of the other limb electrodes towards the right arm
Lead AVL
Is from the average of the other limb electrodes towards the left arm
And Lead avf is the average of the other limb electrodes towards the left leg
This is what the first half in ECG looks like
With the 6 Lindley
You can see
The first column
Shows leads 1 2 and 3
And the second column shows leads AVR AVL and APF
Again these 6 leads
Provide you with information
Frontal plane
Is helpful show these leads
Axial reference
Shown here
Which will be important when we later discussed how did
Determine the axe
Nothing discussed how the limb leads provide information about the frontal plane we're going to talk about the chest leads also referred to as a pre
Recorded leads
The six chest electrodes produce the six chest leads known as V1 through V6
Would give you information about the electrical activity of the heart in a transverse plane
Let's imagine we take a cross-section through the ventricles
Sean over here is a bird's-eye view as if we were looking down on this cross-section
The chest leads are unipolar so the only measure current going towards the particularly
Lead V1 is directed towards the anterior of the heart
Believe V6 is directed towards the left lateral Direction
The other leads filling in between
The electrons are duly placed
In these following locations
Lead V1
Is place in 4th intercostal space just to the right of the sternum
Weed V2 is also in the fourth intercostal space just to the left of the sternum
Skip ahead to V4 and it's in the fifth intercostal space along the left midclavicular line
Env3 Phil's Inn in between V2 and V4
B5 goes in the fifth intercostal space along the left anterior axillary line
Mv6 is also in the fifth intercostal space along the left mid axillary line
Here's an example of the second half of a normal ECG which shows the precordial leads
The First Column shows V1 V2 and V3 in the second column shows V4 V5 and V6
Now it's put these two halves together
A standard 12-lead ECG has the following orientation
The left-hand column shows leads 1 2 and 3
The next column shows leads AVR AVL and avf
The next column shows V1 V2 and V3 in the last column shows V4 V5 and V6
As usual at least one Rhythm strip below which is usually an extended lead to
This particular ECG also has extended leads V1 and V5
Now we can introduce some Concepts that are crucial for the clinical use of ECGs
First let's talk about you to do territories
The regions of the heart that are relevant to ECG interpretation are anteroseptal
Intra apical
Anterolateral lateral and inferior
The posterior wall of the heart is a little complicated so we will leave it out until a later discussion
Ischemia
Here's the lead placement of V1 through V6 in the transverse plane which shows you how the leaves will correspond to different era
Layers of the heart
V1 to V2
Give you information about the anteroseptal region of the heart
V3 to V4 correspond to the entro apical region
B-52 V6 correspond to the anterolateral aspect of the heart
Now imagine the orientation of the limb leads 1 2 3 AVR AVL avf
You can see how Li the one in AVL tell you information about the left lateral wall of the heart
2 3 and avf correspond to the inferior aspect of the heart
Weed aviars left out in terms of anatomical location
Now let's dive into a discussion of the coronary arteries
You may remember some of this from Anatomy
Coronary arteries Supply blood to specific regions of the heart
We should begin with the caveat
But every person has variation in the coronary Anatomy
But we will discuss the most common convention for describing the coronary arteries
The left coronary artery and left Main
Divides into the left anterior descending artery and the left circumflex coronary artery
The LED runs along the interventricular septum and gives off septal branches that Supply blood to the septum
And diagonal branches that Supply blood to the anterior wall
Apex and sum of the lateral wall
The circumflex wraps around the left wall of the heart
And supplies the lateral and posterior walls of the left ventricle
Since the left lateral wall is supplied by combination of diagonal branches of the LED as well as obtuse marginal
Branches of the left circumflex
You can imagine the variation exist in which one or the other artery dominates the supply
The right coronary artery comes down like this and wraps underneath the heart
IT Supplies SA node AV node right ventricle and inferior region of the heart
Here's why this is important
Because ECG leads correspond to specific regions of the heart and those regions are supplied by specific coronary arteries
We can infer that a blockage in artery during a myocardial infarction will show up as a change in the ECG leads
The correspond to the region supplied by that artery
So just to review
V1 and V2 give you information about the anteroseptal region of the heart
Since the anteroseptal region
It supplied by the septal branches off of the Proxima LED you can see that leads V1 and V2 give you a
Information about the proximal LED
V3 and V4 correspond to the anterior apical region
Which is supplied by the mid distal LED
V5 and V6 correspond to the anterolateral aspect of the heart which is other supplied by diagonal branches of the LED orb
Obtuse marginal branches of the circumflex
One AVL corresponds the left lateral wall of the heart which is supplied by the circumflex
At least one AVL should tell you about the circumflex
And finally with 2 3 and avf tell you about the inferior region of the heart which is supplied by the RCA
You may have noticed that all chest leads provide information about the LED
That should tell you that the LED isn't extremely important artery
Of course the left ventricle is a Powerhouse that pumps blood throughout your entire systemic circulation
So the artery that supplies the bulk of the left ventricle must be important
In fact the LED is the most common coronary artery to become occluded
And a blockage in approximately d
Is colloquially known as a Widowmaker
To the high mortality rates associated with this specific lesion